# tfm-ideas
Ideas for master theses / projects. Look also in the [Geographies of UJI](https://github.com/cgranell/geographies-of-ujiers)

## Research lines
* Spatial analysis of playability areas and socio-economic aspects
* gamified apps/LBS in urban contexts to enhace mobility
* GIS/spatial operators in education
 
## Get inspired by
* [Community experiments](https://experiments.withgoogle.com/)
* [Objectifier Spatial Programming (OSP)](https://experiments.withgoogle.com/ai/objectifier-spatial-programming)
* [Visualizing High-Dimensional Space](https://experiments.withgoogle.com/ai/visualizing-high-dimensional-space)
 
## Master projects done 

### Visualization and visual analytics of geospatial data for psychological treatment
*Summary*: A visualization tool based on Luis' metric analytical framework, which is aimed to better interpret the results of interventions in the treatment of certain psychological disorders such as Agoraphobia or Depression. It was done in collaboration with LABPSITEC. EM student Iskandaryan Ditsuhi (2016-2018 promotion), from Sep 2017 to Mar 2018, developed and successfully defended her [master thesis](http://repositori.uji.es/xmlui/handle/10234/173976). 

### Connecting addicted patients and therapists based on gps for providing context-aware notification
*Summary*: The thesis proposes an extension to the [Symptoms](http://geotec.uji.es/projects/SyMptOMS/) platform in two ways: on one hand, it allows location- and time-based triggered questionnaires to further assess the patients psychological state in-situ and in real time; and, on the other hand, the developed tool extends the current location-based notifications system of the platform to use the same context—based triggers to further assist psychotherapeutic interventions. Furthermore, the web application is extended to collect, store and visualize the feedback sent by the patients to support therapists to make informed decisions. EM student Fanawani (Fana) Gebremeskel (2017-2019 promotion), from Sep 2018 to Mar 2019, developed and successfully defended her [master thesis]()

### Mapping the real character of Castellón (meaningful clusters) though the lens of cycling flows 

*EM Student*: Fabián Rodolfo Perotti (2017-2019 promotion), from Sep 2018 to Mar 2019


## Master project proposals (pending to be assigned)

### Impact of the Tobler’s first law of geography.

*Summary*: [Waldo R. Tobler passed away in 2018](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/15230406.2018.1447399). He was a pioneer in the fields of cartography and GIS. The idea of this thesis proposal is to explore the literature (1970-today) that references or explicitly mentions Tobler's first Law of Geography, *everything is related to everything else, but near things are more related than distant things*, to analyse their motives to do so, creating a network of influences of the Tobler law. In what application domains is Tobler's first law of Geography relevant? What is the temporal and spatial variability of the impact of this law? 

*Related work*: [First Law of Geography](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/10.2307/143141)

*Methods*: literature review, critical review, bibliometric analysis, data visualisation, network analysis.

### Mapping the real character of Castellón (meaningful clusters) though the lens of cycling flows and user-generated POIs 

*Hypothesis*: Urban boundaries derived from cycling flows and social POIs reflect better the socio-economic-mobility reality / character of Castellon than the artificial administrative units.

*Summary*: The objective of this TFM is to explore and uncover the cycling movement in Castellón, based on the data provided by the local biking-shared system. Instead of focusing on the collection, preparation and fusion of data, the goal is to design and develop a visual and interactive (geo)narrative to communicate to a broad audience how cyclists move in Castellón. The main source of information is the bycicle trips data set already processed and generated by [Fabian's thesis] (), which is accessible in [Zenodo](). The expected results are a series of interactive maps and visualisations (e.g. storyMas) to communicate to key stakeholders and society alike the  remarkable patterns of mobility of the residents of Castellón, to reveal the *true mobility character* of the city of Castellón. Such narratives can contaisn maps on the density of daily trips, recreational trips vs commuting trips, etc. 

*Context*: This project is part of and is expected to contribute to a larger project called **The Geographies of UJIers**. This TFM is intended to find or formulate new questions about (social) pressing issues in urban contexts. Seeing a problem from the geographical dimension can help to understand it better and find novel ways to tackle it. This TFM must also embrace [research reproducibility practices](https://peerj.com/articles/5072/).

*Methods*: Story telling, use cases, visual narratives, reproducibility 

*Related work*: 
* Built on top of Fabian's thesis, who did a big effort to collect and clean bike mobility data in Castellón. 
* [Building a National-Longitudinal Geospatial Bicycling Data Collection from Crowdsourcing](
http://www.mdpi.com/2413-8851/1/3/23)
* [MIT | Cityways Unveiling Recreational Movement in Urban Areas](http://senseable.mit.edu/cityways/)
* Nice maps compostions to tell visual narratives, e.g. [Maps: Tracking Harvey’s Destructive Path Through Texas and Louisiana](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/08/24/us/hurricane-harvey-texas.html)

### Conceptualisation of mobility neighbourhoods through the lens of cyclists
*Hypothesis*: Mobility is a multi-dimensional, multi-faceted concept that may lead to multiple interpretations. 

*Summary*: Much research has put the focus on monitoring mobility behaviour in the sense of detecting differences in the mobility behaviour of distinct profiles of people (or types of transport modes). For example, locals and tourists move differently in a city, as each profile visits more frequently certain places and takes certain routes than the other. Or confronting taxis’ and private cars’ mobility. Assessing **where, when and how** a person travels and moves has been and is the aim of mobility behaviour. 

However, there are different dimensions that make the detection and assessment of mobility behaviour difficult. Scale, for example. Sometimes, we want to study mobility behaviour at an individual level. Other times, we are interested in the aggregation, i.e. group level, to detect overall mobility patterns for urban planning purposes and sustainable mobility/transport policies. No focus, though, has been put in detecting whether a particular individual (or moving object) behaves differently from day to day in terms of mobility (due to new mobility habits, new travel routes, new transport modes, update street network, etc.). Mobility is a multi-dimensional phenomenon. When (temporal dimension), where (spatial dimension) and how (transport mode) are well-understood dimensions of mobility behaviour on past mobility studies. Yet, these dimensions have been studied/seen static because no attention has been put on the dynamics of mobility behaviour itself: why does behaviour change, what (and what not) triggers such changes, how long does that change endure, what impact this change produces, does this impact produce a local network effect to surrounding/nearby people or moving objects, does otherwise it produce a network effect at scale?, etc.

The aim of the thesis is to take a fresh perspective to explore and conceptualise the dynamics of mobility behaviour change from the perspective of cyclists. Mobility behaviour is the result of a set of endogenous (internal) factors (speed, transport mode, etc.) and exogenous (external) factors (weather conditions, built environment, traffic conditions, road type, road conditions, etc.). Based on a replica of human senses (sight, hearing, taste, smell, and touch), the idea is to mimic **how cyclists sense mobility and the environment**: sensing organs associated with each sense send information to our brains to help us understand and perceive the world around us. A way to characterise mobility and interaction with other moving objects may be based on the five human senses. 

The focus of this work is to explain the effect that geographic distance (or speed, or visibility) has on cyclists with respect to mobility interactions and, simultaneously, to understand the interplay between the endogenous and exogenous factors and their spatial context. As a result, a proof-of-concept tool to visually test (e.g. isochrone map/lines) the concept of mobility neighbourhoods from cyclists' perspective will be produced. 

*Related work*: Literature on mobility, movement analysis, [thick mobility](thick) as mobility data (trajectories) can only mobilise people and change things when it becomes thick with social and contextual meaning. To link to Diego's open dataset of bicycle trips in cities.

*Methods*: Theoretical approach, literature review, proof-of-concept 

### How diverse are my routes? Innovative visualisations of human trajectories (small multiples)

*Hypothesis*: the diversity of trajectories can be a predictor of depressive symptoms (or other phenomena). 

*Summary*: he goal is to design and generate one or more innovative piece(s) of visualisation in order to explore humans' routes. In general, mobility patterns and behaviour may be useful for a variety of applications, such as urban planning, personal health, contamination or, as the proposed case study in this thesis, mental health. The idea of this thesis is to characterise mobility patterns based on an index of diversity in order to respond to the question: how diverse are patient's routes over the last week, or two weeks? To this aim, the student will explore and develop (novel) visualisation technique(s).

A proposed example type of visualisation is small multiples. The student can work on an improved version of small multiples (coloured, annotations, interactive) as a way to visually compare routes over the past weeks, and so to determine the variability of the routes taken by patients. Small multiples might take the form of a matrix, where each row refers to a patient, and each column refers to a day. As a result, each cell would contain a representation of the trajectory/route, with the aim to make explicit how diverse trajectories are compared to time and patients. How might small multiples be classified (and coloured) based on the index of diversity? Other questions in collaboration with the users of these novel visualisation designs will surely emerge during the project. 

Small multiples is the proposed example visualisation, but the student may also propose his/her own novel visualisation technique to develop.

Resulting code will be integrated into an existing R library/package for innovative analysis and visualisation of trajectory data. Input data will be based on real experiments, collected through the GEOTEC's mental health app builder, In summary, the ultimate goal is to make it easy for everyone (patients, therapists, ...) to understand mobility patterns and behaviour visually. 

*Related work*: [Visualise your Strava routes with R](https://www.r-bloggers.com/visualize-your-strava-routes-with-r/amp/); [GEOTEC's mental health app builder](https://geo-games-builder.firebaseapp.com/login).

*Methods*: programming, data visualisation, visual analytics, trajectories, diversity index. 

## Others

Title: **New interfaces for spatial operators for kids**

Summary: Kids and young people are increasingly being accustomed to map-based interfaces. Even though they can do basic map interactions such as pan, zoom in, zoom out, and locate landmarks, to understand the use and need of spatial operator is still challenging. The topic aims to design and implement a new way to make the semantics and usage of spatial operators understandable and easy to use for kind and young people. 
Status: pending

Title: **Location-based services via street name signs**

Summary: Visitors in cities do not have sometimes GPS connections nor paper maps. An alternative idea can be to use street name signs as proxy for location-based services. Lost users an take a picture of the closer street name sign and the system is able perform spatial services according to the user's location. The underlying idea is to connect both worlds, real and virtual, to solve a problem. This is referred in the literature as "Blended Spaces"
Status: pending
Related work: Paulo Dias Almeida et al, 2016. [Where the streets Have known Names](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-42089-9_1), with the idea to VR/AR with schoolchildren for education purpose labelled as "Know uyour city through explorign street names"

Title: **Geoproximity for unemployment (young) people** 

Summary: Imagine a jobless person strolling the city. As he is approaching to a place (employer) offering a job, he is prompted with the job offer. The employers can create a job add by simply sending a message (twitter, whatup). The idea is to add some value to the traditional “waiter wanted” sign hold on the door.
Status: pending

Title: **Activity maps**

Summary: Creation of on-demand, personalised maps in function of the actual activity (and/or emotion) one is doing (and/or feeling). That is, producing customised maps on the fly for runners, walkers, drivers, bikers, etc..
Status: pending

Title: Something with new IoT sensors "particles" (The ones Alberto is using)
....
Status: pending

Title: **Tangible programming with IoT sensors "particles"**

Summary: Inspired by [projectbloks](https://projectbloks.withgoogle.com/), the idea is to use physical blocks or bricks augmented with small IoT sensors to program. The physical combination of blocks will be translated into actual code (i.e. sketch ). Could spatial operators be represented and combined using tangible blocks?
Status: pending

Title: **Users able to process** 

Summary: Over the last few years, the world has gradually transformed from an expensive, slow, focused, planned and conducted collection of data by an ad hoc, massive, unplanned data collection carried out by anyone, at any time and wherever. This transition is exemplified by the decadence of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) until relatively recently in favour of the dominating concept of Volunteered Geographic Information (VGI). Nevertheless, the processing or analysis had always been beyond the reach of citizens. What we pursue is to democratize the ability of processing spatial data among the large public, educate on spatial operators and on the critical skill of undertanding how data is transformed. Just as VGI has done with the production of data, we want citizens be able to choose how and when they process their data.
Status: pending


Title: **Georreferencing scholarly publications hosted in the UJI institucional repository** 

Summary: To investigate distinct ways to georreference a research paper (title, keyworks, content, auuthors' affiliation) and create a visualisation tool to support visual analytics 

This project is part of and is expected to contribute to a larger project called **Where the UJIers go: 10 data visualisations to explain the impact of UJI**

Related work: [GEOUP4](http://revistes.upc.edu/geoup4)
Status: pending
Methods: NLP, programming, web mapping, research data, visual clustering


Title: **Research reusability and the Geosciences**

Summary: This is related to the ongoing effort to define RR for the Geosciences. In particular, I would be interested in working on the the interpretastion of VGI and reproducibilty in the concext of advancing science when user-generated data is beaing used for reserach. There are important qu that remain open in the interplay of the sporadic nature of VGI adn researh reproducibility. 
Status: pending

Title: **One-time maps for crowdsourced knowledge base**

Summary: Based on the collaboration with Barbara Hoffer (See gdrive document)
Status: pending

Title: **The geography of employability data**

Summary: University Observatory

This project is part of and is expected to contribute to a larger project called **Where the UJIers go: 10 data visualisations to explain the impact of UJI**
 
Status: pending


Title: **From place of residence to place of activity: spatiotemporal mapping of population density**

Summary: Population is a crucial variable for the social sciences, the geosciences, and for policy support in many domains. Yet, our knowledge of its spatial distribution is still nowadays very incomplete. Population is a temporally dynamic variable, with major shifts in its distribution occurring in daily and seasonal cycles, resulting in rapidly changing densities. While spatially detailed representations of residential population  maps can be used as proxies for night-time population distribution, the distribution of population for other time frames is practically unknown at almost every spatial scale.

The location of population during the day is determined by the location of economic, social and leisure facilities which pull population off their residences, driving commuting flows and other forms of daily trips. Daytime population distribution thus varies greatly from night-time distribution, and it is much more challenging to infer.

Related: ENACT project (“ENhancing ACTivity and population mapping”), https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/publication/enhancing-activity-and-population-mapping-exploratory-research-project-interim-report

Title: **Europeana - Platial analysis, processing and visualisation**

Summary: [Europeana Collections](https://www.europeana.eu/) provides access to over 50 million digitised items such as  books, music, artworks and more. It has a set fo [APIs](https://pro.europeana.eu/resources/apis) to build applications. Based on a few, key use cases, the idea of the project is to explore the use and exploitation of Europeana Collection resources from the spatio-temporal perspective, to approach these resources to European citzens thorough easy-to-use applications. Much more elaborated work might be platial analysys, as opossed to well-known spatial analysis, to initiate a new research line on Place-based research (Andres' thesis?) related to digital humanities/social science resources. Enrich place information of entity data   

Related: [MDPI IJGI Special Issue "Place-Based Research in GIScience and Geoinformatics"](http://www.mdpi.com/journal/ijgi/special_issues/place-based); [MDPI IJGI Special Issue "Data Acquisition and Processing in Cultural Heritage"](http://www.mdpi.com/journal/ijgi/special_issues/Cultural_Heritage_IJGI)


Title: **New use cases of Blockchain in GIScience**

Summary: Look at blockchain.md file in RR folder.

NOTE: A system to collect, organise and classify papers about a theme. Related Siabato's works: Siabato et al  (2017) [An Annotated Bibliography on Spatiotemporal Modelling Trends](https://www.graphyonline.com/archives/archivedownload.php?pid=IJEES-135). Int J Earth Environ Sci 2: 135; and 
Siabato et al (2014). [TimeBliography: A Dynamic and Online Bibliography on Temporal GIS](https://doi.org/10.1111/tgis.12080 ). T GIS 18(6): 799-816

NOTE: See also AI in precission medicine, microsoft research

NOTE: LOOK AT THE MAILBOX, TAGS TODO, TFM-Ideas, Project Ideas

NOTE: Have a look at [selected projects from Visualizar 17 Migraciones](
https://www.medialab-prado.es/en/news/visualizar17-migraciones-selected-projects-announced). Rewrite Altas of UJI's projects?

NOTE: [ROpenSpain](https://ropenspain.es/)




